== About ==

Pilot Assistant (PA) is an application created to allow the automation of certain flight phases in order to be able to more comfortably manage some advanced functions included in the G91. Obviously, each airplane pilot can choose the automatic functions he deems most suitable for the type of flight he wants to perform.
=== PA is not an autopliot! ===
The G91R1B is a typical bomber fighter born in the 50s of the last century that had no particular device for navigation automation except for the presence of the pitch damper and the yaw damper. Therefore inserting an autopilot would have been an unacceptable historical inaccuracy for this project. <BR> For this reason I wanted to create the PA that tries to reproduce, with a simple expert system, a real pilot. For this reason, the structure of the configuration panel is made by topics and not by functions and many actions that the PA performs are done with the same approach as the real pilot. For example, the landing phase on the runway takes place following a slope (3.5-4 degrees) with respect to the start runway coordinates. This method is more imprecise, but very similar to what happens in the reality of VFR flight. Same method for take-off which is divided into various phases according to the height with the ground and speed. There is also a very useful "impact control" function that analyzes the terrain every second, in the quietest phases of the flight, or every 0.5-0.2 seconds in the presence of obstacles by means of a constant detection of the altitude with the distance. <BR> The more particular functions will be presented during the explanation of the various modules.
=== Is it fun to use PA? ===
It is a very personal answer, I liked it a lot because it allowed me to better understand how to improve the aerodynamic characteristics of the plane in the various flight phases, making very precise and reproducible tests. But at the same time it also allowed me to "look out of the cockpit" and observe the synthetic panorama produced by FGFS ... and therefore dream.

== Configuration of the Pilot Assistant panel ==

From the '' Fiat G91 '' menu the first item is '' Pilot assistant '', click on the item and the panel opens.
The panel has an big width of 1024 pixels, this means that it can be easily used with 2K monitors, with smaller monitors it will tend to completely cover the view, but I don't think it is a problem as PA programming because is only necessary in a few stages of the flight.

<Pannel>

The panel starts with two menus side by side, the left one manages the '''heading''', the right one the '''pitch and the altitude'''. Under the two panels side by side, '''speed''', '''fuel control''' and '''thrust''' are managed.

Three other sections define three typical flight phases:

* Take Off
* PHI Route
* Auto landing

==Heading control==

<heading pictures>

The first section has a check-box for activating the control. The radio-button insert the auto-coordination has been inserted on the left, this second control is operational even if the control has not been activated. Autocoordination operates on the tail rudder in operation trying to minimize acceleration on the y axis through a PID control.

The second section allows to obtain the following functions:

''Wings level'': Levels the wings and the direction then becomes the current one.
''Maximum wing slope'': Defines the maximum inclination of the wings during the turn, this value also determines the turning radius. To the right of the angular value entry box there is an indicator of the current inclination of the wing and the value of the turning radius.

''True heading'' is the box to enter the desired course angle and to the left of the input box is the current value and the residual value in green.

The series of three buttons allows you to enter the current angle, while the left button makes the plane turn left 5 ° at a time and the other on the right makes the aircraft turn right 5 °.

The last radio button ''Phi heading'' allows you to control the header according to the data coming from the PHI route management system.

==Pitch and the altitude control==

It is a much more complex section that puts many control algorithms and PID systems into action.
This section also consists of two parts, the first activates two different options, while the second allows you to activate other functions that define the type of flight you want the pilot assistant to perform.

===First section===

* '''Check-box Pitch/Attitude Control'''<BR>Activate the section, if this switch is not activated none of the functions will be active.
* '''Radio button Impact control'''<BR>This is a very complex option in its execution, it serves to prevent the plane from colliding with the ground, mountain ranges, and hilly areas. This option has two sliders that regulate the operating parameters, the first is the '' Advance '' which defines how long before the expected impact the correction maneuver will be started. The value is fictitious in that it varies according to the type of land flown over. The value 15 is normally sufficient to avoid impacts with the ground even when flying at a very low altitude, if the value is higher it will be observed that the plane will tend to rise with respect to the obstacle at a greater distance. If it is lower, in the case of mountains with very steep sides, it is possible that the plane may impact to the side.<BR>The second slide defines the average altitude above the ground or the QFE in which we fly, it is also on average the flight altitude above the mountain ridges. Obviously the higher this value, the quieter the flight.
:'''Note on the impact control system:'''<BR>The impact control system is quite complex in that it simulates a terrain following radar system. Obviously the G91R1B did not have a similar system on board, you have to wait 15 years with the Tornado bomber fighter (A plane very similar to the American F111), but had to use only the pilot's ability. The ../Nasal/pilot_impact_control.nas program emits 4 beams, placed at different angles, which make up 4 different 13-point profiles. These profiles are used to build a weighted map of values. This map allows you to perform the correct elevation of the plane according to the terrain profile. The plane was tested in the crossing of the Alps from the south (Italy) to the north (Germany) at a speed ranging from 250 to 450 knots with an altitude above the ground of about 1000 ft.
